# Dataset and results from: _Setting priority conservation management regions to reverse rapid range decline of a key neotropical forest ungulate_

This repository has data and results from the research article: _Setting priority conservation management regions to reverse rapid range decline of a key neotropical forest ungulate_ from Julia Emi de Faria Oshima, Maria Luisa S.P. Jorge, Thadeu Sobral-Souza, Luca Börger, Alexine Keuroghlian, Carlos A. Peres, Maurício Humberto Vancine, Ben Collen, and Milton Cezar Ribeiro. The paper was published in Novemeber of 2021 in Global Ecology and Conservation and can be found at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gecco.2021.e01796

# Abstract
Mammals are important components of biodiversity that have been drastically and rapidly impacted by climate change, habitat loss, and anthropogenic pressure. Understanding key species distribution to optimize conservation targets is both urgent and necessary to reverse the current biodiversity crisis. Herein, we applied habitat suitability models for a key Neotropical forest ungulate, the white-lipped peccary (WLP _Tayassu pecari_), to investigate the effects of climate and landscape modifications on its distribution, which has been drastically reduced in Brazil. We used 318 primary records of WLP to derive habitat suitability maps across Brazil. Our models included bioclimatic, topographic, landscape, and human influence predictors in two modelling approaches. Models including all categories of predictors obtained the highest predictive ability and showed prevalence of suitable areas in forested regions of the country, covering 49% of the Brazilian territory. Filtering out small forest fragments (<2050 ha) reduced the suitable area by 5%, with a further reduction of 4% that was caused by deforestation until 2020, therefore until 2020, the species has suffered a reduction of ~60% from its historical range in Brazil. Of the 40% of the Brazilian territory suitable to WLP, only 12% is protected. In the Atlantic Forest, only half of all protected areas have suitable habitat for WLP and even less in Pantanal (44%), Cerrado (14%) and Caatinga (7%). In a second modelling approach, mapping the areas with suitable climate and those with suitable landscapes separately, allowed us to identify four categories of conservation values, and showed that only 17% of the Brazilian territory has both high landscape and climatic suitability for WLP. Our models can help inform complementary conservation management strategies and actions that could be essential in slowing down and possibly reversing current trends of population and geographic range reductions for the species, thereby averting a possible future collapse of forest ecosystem functioning in the Neotropical region.

# Citation
Oshima, J. E. F., Jorge, M. L. S., Sobral-Souza, T., Börger, L., Keuroghlian, A., Peres, C. A., Vancine, M. H., Collen, B. & Ribeiro, M. C. (2021). Setting priority conservation management regions to reverse rapid range decline of a key neotropical forest ungulate. Global Ecology and Conservation, 31, e01796.

# Contact
For more information, please contact us via email: juliaoshima@yahoo.com.br
